<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="eds-poc-concept">
    <title>Edge Delivery Services Overview</title>
    <shortdesc>This concept topic provides an overview of Adobe Edge Delivery
        Services (EDS) and how it integrates with AEM Guides for fast, modern
        content delivery.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <author>POP Tech Team</author>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <keyword>EDS</keyword>
                <keyword>AEM Guides</keyword>
                <keyword>POC</keyword>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <section>
            <title>What is EDS?</title>
            <p>Adobe Edge Delivery Services is a fast, modern web delivery
                platform. It serves content from a GitHub repository through a
                globally distributed edge network. The system is built around
                <ph>three core ideas</ph>: <term>GitHub-based authoring</term>,
                <keyword>markdown content</keyword>, and
                <uicontrol>block-based UI components</uicontrol>.</p>
            <p>For step-by-step setup instructions, see
                <xref href="task-sample.dita" type="task">Configuring an EDS
                Output Preset</xref>.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Key features</title>
            <ul>
                <li>Lightning-fast page loads via global edge caching.</li>
                <li>Content stored as markdown in a Git repository.</li>
                <li>Block-based component system for UI flexibility.</li>
                <li>Seamless integration with AEM Guides for DITA content.</li>
            </ul>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Supported output types</title>
            <ol>
                <li>HTML5 — the primary output for EDS sites.</li>
                <li>Native PDF — via Adobe's native PDF generator.</li>
                <li>JSON — for headless content consumption.</li>
                <li>CUSTOM — user-defined output via templates.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Terminology</title>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Section</dt>
                    <dd>A logical grouping of content, separated by
                        <codeph>---</codeph> in markdown.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Block</dt>
                    <dd>A reusable UI component, encoded as a markdown
                        table whose first row contains the block name.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>fstab.yaml</dt>
                    <dd>The file that tells aem.live where to fetch site
                        content from.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Performance comparison</title>
            <p>The following table compares EDS to traditional CMS delivery:</p>
            <table>
                <title>Performance metrics</title>
                <tgroup cols="3">
                    <colspec colname="metric" colwidth="2*"/>
                    <colspec colname="cms" colwidth="1*"/>
                    <colspec colname="eds" colwidth="1*"/>
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Metric</entry>
                            <entry>Traditional CMS</entry>
                            <entry>EDS</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Initial load time</entry>
                            <entry>2–5 seconds</entry>
                            <entry>under 500ms</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Time to interactive</entry>
                            <entry>3–8 seconds</entry>
                            <entry>under 1 second</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Caching layer</entry>
                            <entry>Origin-side</entry>
                            <entry>Global edge</entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Code example</title>
            <p>A typical <codeph>fstab.yaml</codeph> file looks like this:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-yaml">mountpoints:
  /:
    url: https://my-org.github.io/my-site/
    type: markup</codeblock>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Important notes</title>
            <note>This is a regular note. Use it to draw attention to
                important but non-critical information.</note>
            <note type="warning">Do not delete <filepath>fstab.yaml</filepath>
                from your repository — aem.live requires it for site
                registration.</note>
            <note type="tip">Use the AEM Sidekick browser extension to publish
                individual pages without redeploying the whole site.</note>
            <note type="caution">Changes to <filepath>fstab.yaml</filepath>
                after AEM Code Sync is installed may not be picked up.</note>
            <note type="important">Always commit a valid mountpoint before
                installing the AEM Code Sync GitHub App on your
                repository.</note>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>External references</title>
            <p>For more information, see Adobe's
                <xref href="https://www.aem.live/" format="html" scope="external">aem.live documentation</xref>
                or the
                <xref href="https://github.com/adobe/aem-guides-boilerplate" format="html" scope="external">AEM Guides EDS boilerplate</xref>
                repository on GitHub.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Quote</title>
            <lq>EDS isn't just a delivery platform — it's a complete
                reimagining of how content flows from author to reader,
                powered by edge computing and modern web standards.</lq>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
