<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="eds-poc-task">
    <title>Configuring an EDS Output Preset</title>
    <shortdesc>This task explains how to configure an Edge Delivery Service
        output preset on a DITA map in AEM Guides, so generated content is
        published to a GitHub repository served by aem.live.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <author>POP Tech Team</author>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <keyword>EDS</keyword>
                <keyword>output preset</keyword>
                <keyword>publishing</keyword>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <taskbody>
        <prereq>
            <p>Before you begin, ensure that:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>You have a GitHub repository created from the
                    <xref href="https://github.com/adobe/aem-guides-boilerplate" format="html" scope="external">aem-guides-boilerplate</xref>
                    template.</li>
                <li>AEM Code Sync is installed on that repository.</li>
                <li>The microservice OSGi configurations are deployed to your
                    AEMaaCS environment.</li>
                <li>You have administrator permissions in AEM Guides.</li>
            </ul>
        </prereq>

        <context>
            <p>An EDS <term>output preset</term> connects a DITA map to a
                <term>publish profile</term>, which holds the GitHub credentials
                that AEM Guides uses to commit generated HTML to your
                repository. Once configured, clicking <uicontrol>Generate
                Output</uicontrol> triggers the full publishing pipeline.</p>
        </context>

        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Open your DITA map in <uicontrol>Map Console</uicontrol>.</cmd>
                <info>You can access Map Console from the asset browser by
                    right-clicking a map and selecting <uicontrol>Open in Map
                    Console</uicontrol>.</info>
            </step>

            <step>
                <cmd>Navigate to the <uicontrol>Output Presets</uicontrol>
                    tab.</cmd>
            </step>

            <step>
                <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>+</uicontrol> icon to create a new
                    preset.</cmd>
            </step>

            <step>
                <cmd>In the preset creation dialog, configure the following
                    options:</cmd>
                <choices>
                    <choice><b>Type:</b> select <uicontrol>Edge Delivery
                        Service (Beta)</uicontrol>.</choice>
                    <choice><b>Name:</b> enter a descriptive name such as
                        <codeph>EDS – production</codeph>.</choice>
                </choices>
            </step>

            <step>
                <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> to create the
                    preset.</cmd>
                <stepresult>The new preset appears in your map's preset
                    list.</stepresult>
            </step>

            <step>
                <cmd>Open the newly created preset and switch to the
                    <uicontrol>Config</uicontrol> tab.</cmd>
                <substeps>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Select your publish profile from the
                            <uicontrol>Publish profile</uicontrol>
                            dropdown.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Enable the <uicontrol>Push to live</uicontrol>
                            toggle.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>

            <step>
                <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Generate Output</uicontrol> to trigger
                    the publishing pipeline.</cmd>
                <info>The microservice converts your DITA content and commits
                    it to the configured GitHub repository under
                    <filepath>/docs/</filepath>.</info>
            </step>
        </steps>

        <result>
            <p>Your DITA content is now published to GitHub and available on
                both the EDS preview and live URLs:</p>
            <ul>
                <li><filepath>https://main--{repo}--{owner}.aem.page/</filepath>
                    (preview)</li>
                <li><filepath>https://main--{repo}--{owner}.aem.live/</filepath>
                    (live)</li>
            </ul>
            <note type="tip">Use the preview URL to validate changes before
                they go live to end users.</note>
        </result>

        <example>
            <title>Example publish profile JSON</title>
            <p>For reference, here is what a complete publish profile looks
                like when stored in AEM:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-json">{
  "profileId": "abc-123",
  "type": "github",
  "profileName": "EDS - production",
  "repoName": "my-eds-site",
  "userName": "my-org",
  "branch": "main",
  "rootFolder": "docs"
}</codeblock>
        </example>

        <postreq>
            <p>After completing this task, see
                <xref href="concept-sample.dita" type="concept">Edge Delivery
                Services Overview</xref> for background on the EDS
                architecture.</p>
        </postreq>
    </taskbody>
</task>
